chore: pepr policies doc table (#803)
defenseunicorns/uds-core: docs/configuration/pepr-policies.md

---
title: Pepr Policies
type: docs
weight: 3
---

## Common Pepr Policies for UDS Core

These policies are based on the [Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/policies/) policies.

> Exemptions can be specified by a [UDS Exemption CR](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/operator/README.md). These take the place of Kyverno Exceptions.

Reviewer: @MxNxPx noting this as a place we can link the exemption docs when added instead of the operator readme.

If a resource is exempted, it will be annotated as `uds-core.pepr.dev/uds-core-policies.<POLICY>: exempted`

## Current Pepr Policies

| Keyverno Policy | Exemption Reference | Description |
| --------------- | :-----------------: | ----------- |

> | [Disallow Host Namespaces](https://kyverno.io/policies/pod-security/baseline/disallow-host-namespaces/disallow-host-namespaces/) | [`DisallowHostNamespaces`](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/networking.ts#L7-L35) | Subject:**Pod** <br> Severity:**high** <br><br> Host namespaces (Process ID namespace, Inter-Process Communication namespace, and network namespace) allow access to shared information and can be used to elevate privileges. Pods should not be allowed access to host namespaces. This policy ensures fields which make use of these host namespaces are set to `false`. |

Reviewer: nit: could we add spaces after subject/severity on each of these? Ex:
```suggestion
| [Disallow Host Namespaces](https://kyverno.io/policies/pod-security/baseline/disallow-host-namespaces/disallow-host-namespaces/) | [`DisallowHostNamespaces`](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/networking.ts#L7-L35) | Subject: **Pod** <br> Severity: **high** <br><br> Host namespaces (Process ID namespace, Inter-Process Communication namespace, and network namespace) allow access to shared information and can be used to elevate privileges. Pods should not be allowed access to host namespaces. This policy ensures fields which make use of these host namespaces are set to `false`. |
```

Author: @mjnagel the table only contains the policies that are done. Policies that do not have mutations are not included

Author: Also somewhat hard to understand but the `Exemption Reference` column has links to the corresponding Pepr mutation code, unsure if i should rename that.

Reviewer: Discussed offline - I think we want to explicitly call out the places where we have a `.Mutate` that does more than just add an exemption annotation (i.e. the places where we change `securityContext`). This main table should cover all of our `.Validate`s for policies, and then we can have a second table that covers any specific `.Mutate`s - these are actually what people tend to be caught off guard by more than just the policies.

Author: addressed these comments in the latest commit, i'll leave this thread open if there's more suggestions!

---
title: Pepr Policies
type: docs
weight: 3
---

## Common Pepr Policies for UDS Core

### Pepr Policy Exemptions {#pepr-policy-exemptions}
These policies are based on the [Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/policies/) policies.

> Exemptions can be specified by a [UDS Exemption CR](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/operator/README.md). These take the place of Kyverno Exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exemptions can be specified by a [UDS Exemption CR](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/operator/README.md), using the values from the "Exemption Reference" column below. These take the place of Kyverno Exceptions.
```

Combine with other comment, I think this might be helpful.

If a resource is exempted, it will be annotated as `uds-core.pepr.dev/uds-core-policies.<POLICY>: exempted`

### Pepr Policy Validations

> | Kyverno Policy🔗 | Exemption Validation🔗 | Policy Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Kyverno Policy🔗 | Exemption Reference🔗 | Policy Description |
```

Not sure if this is better worded as "reference"? The point of this column should be that this is the name to include in an Exemption CR.

|[Restrict SELinux Type](https://kyverno.io/policies/pod-security/baseline/disallow-selinux/disallow-selinux/) | [`RestrictSELinuxType`](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/security.ts#L287-L327) | Subject: **Pod** <br> Severity: **high** <br><br> SELinux options can be used to escalate privileges. This policy ensures that the `seLinuxOptions` type field is undefined or restricted to the allowed list. |
|[Restrict Volume Types](https://kyverno.io/policies/pod-security/restricted/restrict-volume-types/restrict-volume-types/) | [`RestrictVolumeTypes`](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/storage.ts#L7-L52) | Subject: **Pod** <br> Severity: **medium** <br><br> Volume types, beyond the core set, should be restricted to limit exposure to potential vulnerabilities in Container Storage Interface (CSI) drivers. In addition, HostPath volumes should not be. |

### Pepr Policy Mutations

{{% alert-note %}}

> See [Pepr Policy Exemptions](http://localhost:1313/docs/pepr-policies/#pepr-policy-exemptions) for exempting mutations.

Reviewer: I assume this link was meant to be just the # part. Also might recommend some tweaks to the wording:
```suggestion
Mutations can be exempted using the same [Pepr Policy Exemptions](#pepr-policy-exemptions) references as the validations.
```

Not sure if that makes sense? Just want to specifically callout that the exemption ref is the same name.

{{% /alert-note %}}

| Pepr Mutation🔗 | Mutated Fields | Mutation Logic |
| --------------- | -------------- | -------------- |

> | [Disallow Privilege Escalation](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/security.ts#L14-L75) | `securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation` | Ensures `allowPrivilegeEscalation` is either undefined or set to `false`. Conditions: the field is undefined, the container is not privileged, and `CAP_SYS_ADMIN` is not added. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Disallow Privilege Escalation](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/security.ts#L14-L75) | `containers[].securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation` | Mutates `allowPrivilegeEscalation` to `false` if undefined, unless the container is privileged or `CAP_SYS_ADMIN` is added. |
```

Not sure I love my wording here either, but want to make sure we are clear that this mutates to false, not undefined. Also would like to ensure we are capturing that this is at the container level.

> | [Disallow Privileged Containers](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/security.ts#L14-L75) | `securityContext.privileged` | Ensures that the container does not run in privileged mode by setting `securityContext.privileged` to `false`. |

Reviewer: I'm not sure we actually mutate anything for this outside of what is documented in the previous row, but might be missing it?

Author: Yeah, this one shares the same mutation. Kinda on the fence if it should be documented in some way since, in case someone is trying to find the specific use case for privileged containers vs privileged escalation.

> | [Require Non-root User](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/security.ts#L77-L167) | `securityContext.runAsUser`,<br> `securityContext.runAsGroup`,<br> `securityContext.fsGroup`,<br> `securityContext.runAsNonRoot` | User can define the values for `uds/user`, `uds/group`, `uds/fsgroup` through metadata labels. Defaults to `runAsUser: 1000`, `runAsGroup: 1000`, and `runAsNonRoot: true` if not provided. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Require Non-root User](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/security.ts#L77-L167) | `securityContext.runAsUser`,<br> `securityContext.runAsGroup`,<br> `securityContext.fsGroup`,<br> `securityContext.runAsNonRoot` | Pods are mutated to ensure workloads do not run as root, mutating `runAsNonRoot: true`. Users can define user, group, and fsGroup IDs to run the pod as by using the `uds/user`, `uds/group`, `uds/fsgroup` pod labels. If not provided these default to `runAsUser: 1000` and `runAsGroup: 1000` if not provided. |
```

> | [Drop All Capabilities](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/security.ts#L329-L376) | `securityContext.capabilities.drop` | Ensures all capabilities are dropped by setting `capabilities.drop` to `["ALL"]` for all containers. |

Reviewer: Again unsure how to best capture, but want to note this is per container...
```suggestion
| [Drop All Capabilities](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core/blob/v0.27.0/src/pepr/policies/security.ts#L329-L376) | `containers[].securityContext.capabilities.drop` | Ensures all capabilities are dropped by setting `capabilities.drop` to `["ALL"]` for all containers. |
```
